[EDU-2850] chore: Hexo Boilerplate guide (#430)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/marketplace/templates/hexo-boilerplate/hexo-boilerplate.mdx

---
title: How to deploy edge applications with the Hexo Boilerplate
description: The Hexo Boilerplate 
meta_tags: templates, guides, Azion Marketplace
namespace: docs_guides_hexo_boilerplate
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/hexo-boilerplate/
---

import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';

<Badge variant="accent">
Preview
</Badge>

> **Hexo Boilerplate** facilitates you to build and run a *Hexo Single-Page Application (SPA)* directly on the edge, completing several steps, from repository management to edge deployment, through automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Hexo Boilerplate** facilitates you to build and run a *Hexo Single-Page Application (SPA)* directly on the edge by automating several steps, from repository management to edge deployment.
```

This template uses Hexo version `6.3.0`.

---

## Getting the template

To use the **Hexo Boilerplate**, access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/) and select the **Start with a template** option on the homepage.

This will open a new page where you can select the **Hexo Boilerplate** card.

---

## Setting up the template

Once you're in the template's page, click the **Settings** tab to open the configuration form and provide the information to configure your edge application. 

Fields identified with an asterisk are mandatory.

- **Application Name** *: the name of your edge application. It's used to identify and manage your application within Azion's platform.
  - Use a unique and easy-to-remember name. If the name has already been used, the platform returns an error message.
- **GitHub Personal Token** *: your GitHub personal token.

> :::tip

Author: ```suggestion
:::note
```

:::

### Key configurations

By deploying this template, through automation, the script creates an edge application along with an edge function and a GitHub repository for your project to manage the source code.

Your project carries out multiple configurations, including setting up the edge application and its domain to host your project and an edge function for custom logic.

The script also commits deployment details to the repository to maintain a transparent and trackable deployment history, including information related to the version deployed and the timestamp of the deployment. Besides that, the repository also includes all required dependencies and a GitHub Action that, by being activated, guarantees a continuous deployment workflow. 

:::tip
If you want to know more on how to edit and customize your project's settings, go to the [Managing the template](#managing-the-template) section.
:::

> Additionally, to guarantee the optimal performance of this template, it's necessary to activate:

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, to guarantee the optimal performance of this template, you must activate:
```

<Badge>
[Edge Functions](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/)
</Badge>

You must activate it separately via RTM. To do so:

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select the three horizontal lines to open the **Products menu**.
3. In the **BUILD** section, select **Edge Application**.
4. You'll be redirected to the **Edge Application** page.
- It lists all the edge applications you've created. 
5. Find the edge application related to your template and select it. 

> 6. In the **Main Settings** tab, find the **Edge Application Modules** section and active the switch for the product you want to enable.

Author: ```suggestion
6. In the **Main Settings** tab, find the **Edge Application Modules** section and activate the switch for the product you want to enable.
```

:::caution[Warning]

> If this product is activated, the execution of this template could generate usage-related costs. Check the [pricing page](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing/) for more information. 

Author: ```suggestion
If this module is activated, the execution of this template could generate usage-related costs. Check the [pricing page](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing/) for more information. 
```

:::

---

## Managing the template

> Considering that this initial setup may not be optimal for your specific edge application, all settings can be customized any time you need by using Azion Real-Time Manager (RTM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Considering that this initial setup may not be optimal for your specific edge application, all settings can be customized any time you need by using RTM.
```

To manage and edit your edge application's settings, follow these steps:

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select the three horizontal lines to open the **Products menu**.
3. In the **BUILD** section, select **Edge Application**.
4. You'll be redirected to the **Edge Application** page.
- It lists all the edge applications you've created. 

> 5. Find the edge application relate to the Hexo Boilerplate and select it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Find the edge application related to the Hexo Boilerplate and select it. 
```

To do so, open your new **Hexo Boilerplate** repository on GitHub. Then, go to **Settings** > **Secrets and variables** > **Action** to [add your variables](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets), following these instructions:

1. Add the Azion personal token to the *secrets*:
- Read [how to generate an Azion personal token](/en/documentation/products/accounts/personal-tokens/) in the documentation.

```bash
    AZION_PERSONAL_TOKEN=<value>
```

2. Add the environments for use in the action workflow in the **main.yml** file, included in the **.github/workflows** folder of your repository:

```yml title=".github/workflows/main.yml"
  - name: edge-...
    id: azion_edge
    ...
    with:
        ....
        azionPersonalToken: ${{ secrets.AZION_PERSONAL_TOKEN }}
        ....

```

3. Open a pull request to merge the changes to the main branch and start the automatic deployment.

> Now, your project is ready to work with a continuous deployment workflow, updating instantly any changes in the application or the repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now your project is ready to work with a continuous deployment workflow, updating instantly any changes in the application or the repository. 
```
